# Building from SCM

Update the Jenkins Plugins and Configure the Maven Installer
Use a browser to navigate to the provided public IP address for the server. Remember to add :8080 to the end of the IP address to specify the default Jenkins port.

Log in with the credentials provided in the lab guide instructions.

Update the Jenkins Plugins
In the menu at the top-right of the window, click the bell icon.

Scroll down to the UI update, and click Apply Migration.

In the menu on the left, click Manage Jenkins.

Scroll down to the warning at the bottom, and click Go to plugin manager.

Check the top checkbox to select all available plugins and click Update.

Once all the items have been marked for actions, scroll down and check the Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running checkbox.

Once restarted, reconnect to Jenkins with the credentials provided.

Configure the Maven Installer
In the menu on the left, click Manage Jenkins.

Scroll down and, under System Configuration, click Tools.

Under Maven installations, click Add Maven.

In the Name box, enter M3.

Make sure Install automatically is checked.

Click Save.

Configure the Build to Use Maven and Make the Index File
In the menu on the left, click New Item.

In the Enter an item name field, enter mavenproject.

Select Freestyle project.

Click OK.

In the menu on the left, click Source Code Management.

Under Source Code Management, select Git.

Copy the git repository link from the lab instructions and enter it into the Repository URL box.

Scroll down, and under Build Steps, click the Add build step dropdown and select the Invoke top-level Maven targets option.

From the Maven Version dropdown, select M3.

In the Goals field, enter clean package.

Click the Add build step dropdown and select the Execute shell option.

In the Command window, enter bin/makeindex.

Scroll down, and under Post-build Actions, click the Add post-build action dropdown and select the Archive the artifacts option.

Under Archive the artifacts, click the Advanced dropdown and check the Fingerprint all archived artifacts checkbox.

In the Files to archive field, enter index.jsp.

Click Save.

In the menu on the left, click Build Now.

Refresh the window and click the View link next to index.jsp. Verify the contents of the index.jsp file.

Conclusion
Congratulations — you've completed this hands-on lab!
